# ORA-01033
ORA-01033 is related to the starting up or shutting down of Oracle. There are several possible causes and fixes to the problem.

## The Problem
The ORA-01033 error message is as follows:

**ORACLE initialization or shutdown in progress **

The most likely cause is that an attempt was made to log on while Oracle is either starting up or shutting down. Otherwise, you may be facing one of the following problems:

* The database was not mounted properly.
* There is a problem with the database files—They may have been moved or are corrupt (CTL, DBF, ORA).
* There is a problem with the database service.

## The Solution
Check to see if the database is in the process of starting up or shutting down. Wait a few minutes for Oracle to finish, then try the operation again. If this is unsuccessful, restart the system and restart the database service.

Another possibility for the error is that your operating system holds RAM regions left over which Oracle takes as an instance that is already running. If this is the case, you must kill all Oracle processes associated with the ORACLE_SID. Identify all RAM memory segments, then release the RAM memory.

If the database was not mounted properly, you must mount and restart the database. Do this by querying “alter the database mount” and “alter database open”.

If there is a problem with the database files, the files may have been changed or moved to a different location. Locate and recover the files if this is the case.

Lastly, if there is a problem with the database service, restart the database service in services. msc.

In addition, if you are getting ORA-19809 in addition to ORA-01033, the solution may lie within fixing ORA-19809, which occurs when the limit is exceeded for recovery files.

A last resort may be deleting the service and database, then recreating it. If you choose to try this method, make sure your data is backed up. In service.msc, stop the service and delete the service. Then recreate the database.

## Looking Forward 
To avoid getting ORA-01033, make sure Oracle is not in the process of starting up or shutting down. Make sure the database is mounted properly and there are no problems with the database service or files. A simple solution to  many problems faced in Oracle requires shutting down and restarting. This may easily resolve some Oracle errors. If you continue seeing ORA-01033, contact your database administrator for assistance. You may consider consulting a licensed Oracle professional.

## Solution

1. First, launch the SQL*Plus program and login to the database instance as a SYSDBA user:
```
Enter user-name: ot@pdborcl as sysdba
Enter password: <password>

```

2. This statement connected to the PDBORCL database using the OT user.

Second, issue the following statement to check the status of the current instance:

```
SQL> select status, database_status from v$instance;

STATUS       DATABASE_STATUS
------------ -----------------
MOUNTED      ACTIVE
```

3. The output showed that the instance status is mounted.

Third, change the state of the Oracle Database instance to OPEN:

```
SQL> alter database open;

Database altered.
```

4. Finally, double check the database status by using the following statement:
```
select status, database_status from v$instance;

STATUS       DATABASE_STATUS
------------ -----------------
OPEN         ACTIVE
```

# ORA-01113 ORA-01110

Tried to bring a data file online, but it failed with ORA-01113 and ORA-01110.

```
SQL> alter database datafile '/u01/app/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/ORCLPDB/example01.dbf' online;
alter database datafile '/u01/app/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/ORCLPDB/example01.dbf' online
*
ERROR at line 1:
ORA-01113: file 13 needs media recovery
ORA-01110: data file 13:
'/u01/app/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/ORCLPDB/example01.dbf'
```

Even when we tried to bring the tablespace online, we got the same error.

```
SQL> alter tablespace example online;
alter tablespace example online
*
ERROR at line 1:
ORA-01113: file 13 needs media recovery
ORA-01110: data file 13:
'/u01/app/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/ORCLPDB/example01.dbf'
```

ORA-01113 means that the data file you want to operate on it is behind the most recent change, you should recover it before using it.

Additionally, ORA-01110 indicates the problematic data file. In this case, it's file #13.

Let's see the status of this data file by querying V$DATAFILE.

```
SQL> select status from v$datafile where file# = 13;

STATUS
-------
RECOVER
```

## Solution
To overcome status RECOVER, we can use RECOVER statement at SQL prompt to apply the most recent change to the data file.

```
SQL> recover datafile 13;
Media recovery complete.
```

A full path filename also works, if you'd like to make sure it's exactly the file.
```
SQL> recover datafile '/u01/app/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/ORCLPDB/example01.dbf';
Media recovery complete.
```

Then check the status again.
```
SQL> select status from v$datafile where file# = 13;

STATUS
-------
OFFLINE
```

Good, we're making some progress here. Next, let's bring it online.
```
SQL> alter database datafile 13 online;

Database altered.

SQL> select status from v$datafile where file# = 13;

STATUS
-------
```

The data file is online again.
